[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: Typeof, so
because JavaScript is weakly typed,
we do sometimes need to figure out what
we're working with for checking arguments.
We wanna validate inputs,
things like that.
We do have a couple of key words or
reserve words to help us out.
Typeof is one of these.
But it can get a little weird as well.
So, here is a basic table of a few
things that we would expect and
a couple things we wouldn't expect.
Typeof undefined.
This is our unreferenced
pointer that we have set up.
Undefined will be undefined.
That's fairly straightforward and
expected.
Typeof null will return object that
is really weird and unexpected.
Typeof Boolean, number,
those are expected.
Not a number, this answers
that question earlier as well.
If you say typeof not a number,
that's gonna return a number which
not a number returning number by
the English definition is a contradiction.
Strings will be strings,
functions will be functions,
even though functions
inherit from objects.
Functions are the special
case in JavaScript.
Arrays will be objects.
What's funny is typeof array being
object is out of this whole table.
Out of any applications I've worked on,
typeof array equals object as a condition
like I wanna make sure
an array is an array.
That's probably the biggest
offender in applications I've seen,
like this if statement is wrong,
it's not gonna be what you expect.
But out of any of the weird
items in this graph, that one makes
the most sense to me for some reason.
Let me show you,
let's talk about what an array looks like.
We'll adhoc here in memory,
I need to pop up an IDE for you.
So, we think of arrays really as this,
very simple kind of set up.
We can make this giant.
This is our basic array.
I'm gonna use letters instead of numbers,
cuz this is gonna get weird, a, b, c.
This is our basic array set up.
But when we say typeof array and
this returns object,
that's a little weird
when we say it aloud, but
let's think about what an array
actually looks like in memory.
So the array construct is just a nice
obstruction for
us to handle this kind of concept.
What it really looks like in memory,
is something more like this.
>> Alexis Abril: And
then we have some stuff like the length.
then we have the really.
>> Alexis Abril: Way up the proto
chain we have stuff like,
really way up the proto chain.
>> Alexis Abril: Slice.
Actually this will be,
if you wanna get technical.
>> Alexis Abril: There we go.
You can think of an array as
looking something like this.
And array is just a hash,
it just happens to have
the keys are just gonna be integers or
numbers, zero, one, two, three.
Those are the indexes of the array,
and those indexes are gonna point to what
values we actually have in the array.
And then we get a bunch of helper
methods and properties like the length.
We walk up our proto chain, and
we're gonna talk about what
that means here in a minute.
And to get a bunch of helper
methods like slice and splice and
all those push and pop.
And you keep walking up proto chain
til it gets to the base object, and
you're gonna have stuff like toString
like the base toString method.
This is what an array
really starts to look like.
So when I say typeof array equals
an object, and like, that makes sense,
it inherits from object.
So typeof is always gonna return.
>> Alexis Abril: A way I think of
it is typeof is always gonna return
the most base type except for functions.
Typeof function will return function,
that's the special case.
So, if you have typeof and
you have a custom
constructed object that you've made,
typeof that object will be object.
Regardless of how many wherever
you inherited that from, etc.
This-
>> Speaker 2: For the most part,
it's returning that hidden type.
>> Alexis Abril: Yes, yes.
[LAUGH] Sorry.
So we're gonna talk about that when we
have a debugger here open in a second too.
So, does that make sense?
So if you really wanna check
if an array is an array.
There's a couple other key words, and
we're gonna get to those here
in a second too [LAUGH].
I don't wanna jump too far ahead.
Any other object?
Yes, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't everything in
JavaScript considered an object?
>> Alexis Abril: So, that is a really
commonly way to think of things now,
it's really a popular way to think.
Everything is an object, if you have
a string, you have methods on the string.
I prefer to think of everything in
JavaScript as from my perspective,
I would say everything in
JavaScript is a pointer.
Cuz everything you're working with is
actually just a pointer referencing
something else in memory.
You do have things like
a method on a string.
That's not the same as
creating a new string.
Like if you use the capital
S string construct.
That's gonna return a little
something different.
So I prefer to think at a very,
very base level everything as a pointer,
cuz that's really what
you're working with.
You're working with a bunch of var some
things that are pointing to something
else in memory.
The pointer itself is not an object.
Does that makes sense?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Alexis Abril: That's the way
I like to think about things.
Good question though, good question.